Decision Support System Code Guide Application to Predictive Maintenance
Systems Design
Hugo MUNOZ HERNANDEZ Juan Jose MONTERO JIMENEZ
Rob VINGERHOEDS
July, 2021

Contents

1 Installation and configuration

3

2 Basic usage

4

2.1 SPARQL queries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

2.2 SQWRL queries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4

2.3 Load data in a table format (.csv ) to an ontology file (.owl ) using CSVtoOntologyExec . . . . . . . . . . . . 5

2.4 Load data from an ontology file (.owl ) to a table format .csv file using OntologytoCSVExec . . . . . . . 6
2.5 Preparing project case base and similarity values for myCBR with myCBRSetting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
2.6 Query and retrieval using the GUI 's . . . . . . . . . . . . 12

2.6.1 GUI2 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13

2.6.2 GUI3 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
2.7 The javadoc . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 2.8 Management of the data folder . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16

3 Dependencies

17

1 INSTALLATION AND CONFIGURATION

3

1 Installation and configuration

For the installation procedure described here it is assumed that the user has installed a version of Eclipse that supports at least Java 8. Under the previous condition, the following steps may be followed to ensure the correct installation:
1. Download the .zip compressed folder of the project and save it in a selected local address in your computer.
2. Make right click over the compressed folder and use Extract Here, a decompressed folder with the same denomination has been created. Inside this folder, another folder named InternshipProject may be found.
3. Open Eclipse and browse to select InternshipProject as the working folder.
4. Once Eclipse has been initialized, go to File  Import  General  Existing Projects into Workspace  Browse and select the folder InternshipProject. The project will be built in the current workspace of Eclipse. The recognition of the folder as an Eclipse project is possible because of the file .project in the same folder.
5. In the case that some referenced libraries (.jar ) seem to be missed, right click on InternshipProject at the workspace menu on the left  Build Path  Configure Build Path  Libraries  click on Classpath in the list below and now the option buttons on the right are available. Delete the paths that are indicated as erroneous and click Add JARs on the left to reintroduce the libraries that are missed. Browse to the external-libs folder and select the .jar files that have to be restored, then just click OK and Apply and Close. However, this problem is not likely to occur as the .classpath file store the path to all the dependencies of the project. Another possible solution to the problem if this existed would be to open the .classpath file with a plain text editor and change the paths that are referencing a local folder in another user computer to a general path starting at the folder external-libs of the project.
Now that the code is installed, some configurations are needed to star execution. There is a class named AppConfiguration in the User package which only contains public static attributes and a couple of methods to build variables. These attributes are read and used by other classes of the project, so they are stored together in the accessory class AppConfiguration to be accessed (not modified) by other pieces of code in the application. The very first change that the user must make in the mentioned class before executing the code is setting the datapath attribute to the actual local path of the data folder of the project. From that point, the attributes on AppConfiguration should be updated to the file names that are wanted to be used inside the data folder (.csv, .owl,.prj, etc). See the javadoc of the project and the comments in the source code of AppConfiguration to get known about the meaning of the attributes.

2 BASIC USAGE

4

2 Basic usage

The usage of this application will be performed simply by the execution of java classes from Eclipse (or any other IDE). It may also require the manipulation of files (ontology files, .csv, myCBR project files, etc) in the designated file folders. Unless a modification of the source code is needed for some reason, there are 5 executable classes in the project that concern to the user at this moment: CSVtoOntologyExec, myCBRSetting, SPARQL, GUI2, GUI3, OntologytoCSVExec and SWRLAPIexec.

2.1 SPARQL queries
A simple executable class has been added to the project to execute SPARQL queries on the working ontology in the same way that they are available in Prot´eg´e. The Jena tool (see Section 3 for more information) is used for that purpose. The SPARQL queries allows the user to obtain an accurate required information from the ontology. A general reference for the SPARQL language can be found at [11]. The user just needs to write the query in a correct syntactical form and execute the class file to get the results of the query on the console. These queries are very quick in their execution as they do not need to run a reasoner and check the ontology consistency. Even if the current implementation in the project is accessory, the SPARQL queries could be potentially used to extract information from an ontology for the definition of ontological similarity values.

2.2 SQWRL queries
The implementation of the SWRL API together with the reasoning engine drools allows to add SWRL rules to the working ontology execute SQWRL queries. See Section 3 for more information. The SQWRL language, which is based on the Semantic Web Rule Language (SWRL), opens the possibility to accurate queries with a relatively simple syntax. There is a paper [21] where the creator of this language give an introduction to the main rules and basic syntax of the queries. An inconvenient has been found for the use the SQWRL queries for the application case in the current research project: the reasoner must be run once for each query, so, when working with ontologies having a big number of individuals declared, this process can require an important amount of RAM memory in the computer and it can last long if many queries are wanted to be executed. That is why, at this moment, the direct querying through the OWL API is used for extracting information from an ontology, as it only requires to run the reasoner (HermiT ) once before executing as many queries as desired. Indeed, the example class in the project SWRLAPIexec allowing to execute SQWRL queries may not work correctly due to the compatibility problems of SWRL API with the latest version of OWL API. See Section 3. However, as it is

2 BASIC USAGE

5

potentially useful for the development of the project, the SWRL API implementation is still included in the project.

2.3 Load data in a table format (.csv ) to an ontology file (.owl ) using CSVtoOntologyExec
When executed, the class CSVtoOntologyExec will read the content in the specified data base in a .csv file and load the information into an ontology file (.owl ). An important consideration is that the .owl files should be written in RDF/XML syntax (choose that option when using Save as in Prot´eg´e). In what concerns to myCBR retrieval, this class may only be executed when the case base information and similarity values contained in the .prj file should be changed or updated to perform CBR queries using new data. The path for working file folder should have been set in the AppConfiguration class, together with the corresponding files denominations. In this folder, it is recommended to locate a clean version of the ontology that is wanted to be used (without instances or individual or property assertions) and another copy (of course with a different name) where the data base will be stored. So, when updating the data base the procedure should be as follows:
· Delete the data base ontology file.
· Make a copy of the clean ontology file and change the name as desired . Of course, the same name should be specified in the AppConfiguration class (ont file name).
· Execute CSVtoOntologyExec, which will read the clean ontology file (specified in AppConfiguration as base ont file name) and the data base of the .csv file (specified in AppConfiguration as csv ) to merge the information in the ontology data base file.
The translation of the information stored in the table to ontological entities is stated with the appropriate using of the methods of the class CSVtoOntology in the package OntologyTools. See the javadoc of the project for details. By this way, the code is flexible to adapt to the ontological meaning of the content in the different columns and cells forming the table tabular data base.
In this particular case, the executable code in the CSVtoOntologyExec class is configured for the Predictive Maintenance data base and the OPMAD ontology. Nevertheless, the class could be modified if needed to suit to another different case or to adapt to a restructuring of the current data base and ontology.

2 BASIC USAGE

6

2.4 Load data from an ontology file (.owl ) to a ta-
ble format .csv file using OntologytoCSVExec
The class OntologytoCSVExec is an executable class allowing to extract data from an ontology file and rewrite it in an organized table format into a .csv file. The class OntologytoTabular is used to get the data and organize it in a structured tabular List object. In the mentioned class, a Jena API implementation is used to be able to execute a series of SPARQL queries on the working ontology and get a tabular data as a result. The advantages of this type of queries for this application are their execution time (fast execution as they do not need reasoning) and the retrieval results obtained on the shape of organized tables. Now, one important issue should be underlined: the SPARQL queries have to be adapted to the particular ontology of the user, as well as the organization criteria for the data when stored as a .csv table. Even if it is possible to use one single query for the data extraction, it is recommended to divide the query in various of them when the size of the database is remarkable, as it would be much faster to execute. The list of queries is automatically built by a method in the AppConfiguration file. It is required to specify the static String parameter queryHead in the mentioned class to set the first part of the SPARQL queries, that will be common to all the queries in the list. This part of the query aims to define the variables that are going to be retrieved and to initialize the selection block. The closing of the query is also common to all the queries in the list, so it can be specified with the parameter queryEnd. The body commands of the queries, which will use the relations existing in the ontology to extract the data, are listed in the parameter queryBodyList in the AppConfiguration file. Then, the method queryList will build the strings with the full queries adding one head and one closing to each one of the body commands blocks. A reference to the SPARQL syntax can be found at [11]. The general procedure to determine the query structure is to choose the variables defining the cases, establish which entities in the ontology contain that information and look for properties or ontological relations that build links between the different pieces of data.
The output data of a SPARQL query is organized in columns , one for each requested variable. Cells in the table can store one single data value. If a variable value in one of the columns matches more than one value of other variable, then there will be one row in the query results table for each combination of values. That comes to say, using a simplified example, that having a table with only two columns in which each one of the n values of the first variable matches two values of the second variable, then the table will have 2n rows, where the values of the first variable variable will appear twice in the column. The same logic extends to several variables with multiple values, that would imply to add as many rows as necessary to include all the combinations of values. An example for the application case of Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System is shown in Figure 1, where it is observed that there are as many rows concerning the reference index '1' as values of the field Input type existing for such case. Note that the indices are ordered using the ontological Prot´eg´e criteria instead of mathematical order.

2 BASIC USAGE

7

Figure 1: Example of SPARQL query results table for the application Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System.
Additionally, a complete SPARQL query for the previously mentioned application case is included in Figure 2 as example to be modified by the user. There is an important detail that must be clarified in what concerns to the variable designations in the SPARQL query: as the characters blank space, '-' and '/' are not allowed, they are substituted respectively by ' ', double ' ' and triple ' '. When rewriting data in a tabular shape using the class OntologytoTabular, the headers of the table containing the variables designations are automatically recovered following the inverse transformation rule.
To optimize the execution time of the queries, they can be divided. Individual queries can be executed to obtain partial data tables in which the reference indices column will be extracted together with one or more of the other columns. It is necessary that all the partial queries get the reference indices column as the first column of their results table, so as later all the partial tables can be merged in one. Hence, in most of the cases the columns can be extracted individually, but sometimes it could be required that some columns are extracted through the same query. When two or more columns that store multiple elements in their cells have an order dependency between them, they must be associated to the same query. The order dependency means that the elements listed in the cells of one of the columns are linked to another corresponding element among the ones listed in the cell of another columns. So, the elements in both columns must be listed in the same order to preserve the relation between the elements of data.
Once defined the queries, the results coming from their execution will be rewritten to tables where each row should match only one case, merging the rows coming from the SPARQL result to gather in the correspondent cells the set of values for those fields that are multiple-valued. A reference column is chosen (first column) with integer reference indices so as the content of the cells of all the rows with the same index is merged. The general criteria to do so is that no value is repeated in the multiple values cells. However, a set of variables names can be listed using the parameter Repetition allowed for those columns in which repeated values in the same cell should be allowed. As blank spaces are forbidden in the SPARQL syntax, when the text values are recovered they are rewritten substituting ' ' characters by blank spaces, unless the user specifies no to do so via the parameter Not Spaced. At the end, all the tables will be put together according to the reference indices column, so as the data coming from the list of queries is gathered into one single data table.

2 BASIC USAGE

8

Then, here are the features that must be set up in order to define the data transference from the ontology to a .csv file:
· SPARQL queries list that will determine what information is requested to the ontology and how it is organized. To be set up in the AppConfiguration file.
· Parameter list Not Spaced to be specified in the class AppConfiguration. In this list it must be included the designation tags of those variables or fields in the table where blank spaces are not desired or expected. For those columns of the table, the text value will be written as it is in origin in the query results, without replacing characters ' ' by blank spaces.
· Parameter list Repetition allowed to be specified in the class AppConfiguration. In this list the user must include, among those variables (columns) that could contain multiple elements in the same cell, in which of them it is allowed that elements are repeated more than once in the same cell.
For the example below, concerning the Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System application, it is illustrated the structure of the SPARQL query (Figure 2), the results for a case with multiple values (Figure 3) and the final format in the .csv table. So, when the results are retrieved from the SPARQL query, more than one row may be obtained for each case to get all the values combinations of all the fields that are multiple-valued. In the Figure 3 it is observed how the case with reference index '8' has multiple values for the fields Input type and Models, while the description tags of the field Model Type are matched to particular values of Models. In this example, a single query has been used in order to clarify the explanation, but in the real application case the query was divided in parts. Indeed, a query was used for each of the columns in the table except the pair Model Type and Models and the pair Performance indicator and Performance, which were respectively included in the same query. The reason for that is that they must keep an order relation for the elements that are listed in the cells. The Model Type values must be stored in the same order that the corresponding elements in the column Models that they are describing. Same condition is needed for the elements listed in Performance indicator and the their value in the column Performance. The column Model Type is declared in the list Repetitionallowed, so as more than one of the Models concerning one case could be described with the same type if they belong to the same family of models.

2 BASIC USAGE

9

Figure 2: Example of complete SPARQL for the application Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System.

2 BASIC USAGE

10

(a)
(b) Figure 3: SPARQL query results table for one particular case for the application Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System.
(a)
(b) Figure 4: Final results table as it is loaded in the .csv file for the application Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System.

2 BASIC USAGE

11

2.5 Preparing project case base and similarity val-
ues for myCBR with myCBRSetting
The class myCBRSetting may be executed when the data base in the .csv (file name specified as csv in the class AppConfiguration) file or the ontology .owl file have been changed (normally their modifications are coordinated). In order to perform myCBR queries on a new case base, or a case base that has been updated, the information must be written in the .prj (file name specified as projectName in the class AppConfiguration) file, which is the one that contains the project data for myCBR. Moreover, the class will run an OWL reasoner (more precisely the HermiT reasoner, see Section 3) on the ontology that will check its consistency and infer relations for the knowledge contained in the ontology. In consequence, the execution of the class can take a bit of minutes, depending on the ontology size. The main reason to use the reasoner is to be able to perform queries on the ontology to extract information that can be used to calculate ontological similarity values. Moreover, the HermiT reasoner allows to make queries about relations that are not initially explicit in the ontology but inferred during the reasoning process. Obviously, if the ontology is not consistent the execution will stop, so to work with an ontological data base it must be consistent. Furthermore, even if the data base can be loaded to the project file either from a .csv data file or from an .owl ontology, the ontology file is always necessary to obtain the similarity values. The class myCBRSetting may be modified to adapt the code to a new application other than the Predictive Maintenance DecisionSupport System. This is because the ontology relations and the method for semantic similarity calculation depend obviously on the application.
When executing, at first, the class uses an instance of CBREngine to load the current .prj file, delete all the existing instances in the case base and introduce the new ones, with their corresponding attribute values, by importing the chosen .csv file or the .owl ontology file. If the .owl database is chosen, the procedure to extract the data is exactly the same as the one followed when executing OntologytoCSVExec, see the Subsection 2.4 for more details. The class OntologytoTabular will get the data from the ontology following the structure of the SPARQL queries list. Then, once the data has been tabulated, it is loaded directly into the myCBR project file instead of creating a .csv file. So, using the direct importing from the .owl file has the same result that creating the .csv file form the ontology and loading it with the default myCBR importer.
After that, the similarity functions are established with the appropriate values. In particular for the Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System application, for the field Task associated to each one of the cases, the similarity values are calculated using an ontological method. The querying of the ontology uses the classes DLQueryEngineIRI and DLQueryParserIRI of the package OnotlogyTools. See the javadoc of the project for more details.

2 BASIC USAGE

12

Case variable Task Case study type Case study
Input type Online/Off-line Input for the model Publication Year

Variable type (myCBR) Symbol
Symbol String
Symbol
Symbol Symbol Integer

Values
Fault feature extraction, Fault detection, Fault identification, Health modelling, Health assessment, Remaining useful life estimation, One step future state forecast, Multiple steps future state forecast. Rotary machines, Reciprocating machines, Electrical components, Structures, Energy cells and batteries, Production lines, Others. The myCBR Levenshtein function is used. Similarity is calculated with the quotient
number of characters ref erence String-Levenshtein distance number of characters ref erence String
A list of variables must be provided separated by ', ' and where all the words should begin with capital letters as it is established in the case base. An additional Levenshtein method in Java allows to support misspelling up to 3 erroneous characters. Online, Off-line, Both, Unknown synchronization. Signals, Structured text-based, Text based maintenance/ operations logs, Time series. This field is not provided by the user, the application will used the current date automatically. The most recent cases in the case base will be prioritized over the older ones.

Table 1: Case variables for querying and retrieval

2.6 Query and retrieval using the GUI 's

Once executed CSVtoOntologyExec to load the data base into the ontology and myCBRSetting to configure the .prj file for myCBR, only the executable GUI 's are required to query and retrieve until the case base is wanted to be modified. The tool myCBR uses the case base, the attributes and the similarity functions specified in the .prj file to search the most suitable case for the given query. To visualize or to modify manually the project file the myCBR Workbench application may be used.
When executing any one of the GUI's, the class Recommender is used. Most of the similarity functions are defined during the execution of the class myCBRSetting, but there is one particular field in the Predictive Maintenance Decision-Support System which similarity values are defined by comparing the current query to all the cases in the data base individually, and that is Input type. An analog method is used, which is analog to the one applied to establish the similarity values between the different Predictive Maintenance functions (field Task ).

2 BASIC USAGE

13

Two executable Graphical User Interfaces are provided for querying: GUI2 and GUI3.

2.6.1 GUI2
The GUI2 allows the user to perform one query at a time by specifying the following parameters:
· Values of the case fields for the retrieval. Some of them must be typed (Case Study and Input type) and for the rest of the fields the values are selected form the ones available in a drop down menu.
· Value of the weights assigned to each field. · Type of amalgamation function that is used to get the global similarity value of each
case. · Number of cases to be retrieved. The resulting list of cases (ordered from higher to
lower similarity value) will be shown in the screen after submitting the query.

Figure 5: Window of the GUI2
If one of the fields is left blank, then its weight in the global similarity value is automatically set to 0. The value of the field Case study is expected to be equal to one already existing in the data base, otherwise the similarity value will be 0 for all the cases.

2 BASIC USAGE

14

The field Input type contains a list of variables (most of them physical variables) that are considered in the Predictive Maintenance model of each case. This list must be typed with the terms separated by ', ' and all the words starting by capital letters, as they appear in the case base. Nevertheless, both fields can manage with possible misspelling errors using the Levenshtein distance method. In particular, the Case study field is defined as string type in myCBR, and it uses the default Levenshtein comparison function. But, for the Input type field, the Levenshtein method is not available in myCBR as it is declared as symbolic value. So, an additional method (class LevenshteinDistanceDP ) to allow up to a distance of three erroneous characters in the spelling is implemented in the similarity function definition (Recommender ). See the javadoc for more details.

2.6.2 GUI3
Using this GUI, the user is able to execute a list of consecutive queries provided in an input file in .csv format and to save their results in separate files (one for each query in the list). It is necessary to prepare an input file with the appropriate structure (see Figure 6). An example of input file is also provided in the actual project folder of the application. For the fields that are stated as symbolic in myCBR and for the string variable Case study, the user must type in the input file a value which is included among the possible values for each field (see Table 1), otherwise the similarity will be just 0. Symbolic fields, with the exception of Input type, do not support misspelling. The field Input type contains a list of variables separated by ', ' where the words should begin by capital letters (as they are in the data base). As soon as one of the variables of the list exist in one of the cases in the data base the similarity value will not be 0 for that case.

Figure 6: Example .csv input file for the GUI3
After having prepared the input file, the GUI window will just require to the user to provide the name of the input file and also that of the result files, as shown in Figure 7. For each one of the queries in the list, a result file will be generated with the denomination specified by the user and an index added to the name indicating its position in the list of queries. An example result file is shown in the Figure 8. The content of the result files is another list containing the information about the cases that have been retrieved (as many as demanded by each query).

2 BASIC USAGE

15

Figure 7: Window of the GUI3

Figure 8: Example .csv result file for the GUI3
2.7 The javadoc
A complete javadoc has been generated for this project. It is available in the folder javadoc of the project. The easiest way to access to the documentation is opening the index file in the mentioned folder. It is an HTML file in the standard format for javadoc resources available in the web, and it may be opened with a web browser. The documentation contains a detailed descriptions of all the classes and methods organized in linked pages, allowing to navigate through the structure of the code. To update the documentation using Eclipse, go to Project  Generate Javadoc. When the window is open, the user must select the folder where the javadoc will be saved. It is recommended to use the folder javadoc, after having deleted the previous content to avoid problems. Of course, the generation of javadoc depends on the javadoc format comments that have been added to the code. See [12] for more details on the javadoc comments format.

2 BASIC USAGE

16

2.8 Management of the data folder
The purpose of the data folder in the project is to store all the files that are needed for the execution tasks of the application. It is very important to remember that the denomination of the files that are wanted to be used inside this folder must be in coordination with the names introduced in AppConfiguration, so as the code is able to find such files. Some of the main types of files and their function are listed:
· Files .owl : the ontology files. One important consideration is that these files must be written in the RDF/XML syntax (choose that option when using Save as in Prot´eg´e). They can be opened with Prot´eg´e to visualize and edit the ontology or with a simple plain text editor, which allows to modify manually the statements. Two files may be used, one file should contain a clean ontology (without the declaration of the individuals in the data base) and the other one with all the data base loaded (and a different name, of course). An ontological data base could be directly used for the myCBR project build-up by selecting the appropriate option (user text input) when executing the class myCBRSetting. In any case, an ontology structure is required, either formed from a .csv table or directly provided by the user.
· Files .csv : files with a table format. A data base in .csv format may be needed to be loaded in the working ontology. The input and result files used by the GUI3 are also .csv format. These files can be opened with Excel. Using a plane text editor to open .csv files may be recommended to ensure that no weird characters have been introduced by Excel at the beginning of the data (an unusual bug in Excel that may alter the name of the first column of data).
· Files .prj : the project files of myCBR, where all the information concerning the query and retrieval must be stored. This type of file can be opened with the myCBR Workbench application.
· Files .ttl : these files contain the ontology dependencies (BFO, CCO ontologies, etc). They are necessary to read the ontologies when working with local imports, so as the ontology is independent of the online servers. They are available at the GitHub repository [22], and may be updated with newer versions from time to time. For the execution of the code, some mappers are set using OWL API to link the .ttl files with the URI that are used by the ontologies to invoke the corresponding dependencies. For the OPMAD ontology, the following files are required: ArtifactOntology.ttl, EventOntology.ttl, ExtendedRelationalOntology.ttl, GeospatialOntology.ttl, InformationEntityOntology.ttl, ro-import.ttl, TimeOntology.ttl.
· File catalog-v001.xml : this file stores the paths to allow Prot´eg´e to import the local ontology dependencies in .ttl format when opening an ontology file that needs those dependencies.

3 DEPENDENCIES

17

3 Dependencies

Here are listed the main APIs and libraries which are needed for the application, which are included in the external-libs folder of the project:
· OWL API : it is an API that allows to read, modify, manipulate and create .owl ontologies. The version currently used in the application is 5.1.9, but future updates could be possible. The API is implemented by including the necessary .jar files in the external-libs folder of the application. The last version of OWL API is available at the Maven repository [2] (artifact owlapi-distribution), but it has been directly obtained as .jar files from [1] with all dependencies. Previous versions are also available. A complete documentation can be accessed at [3] and there is an introduction tutorial written by the creators at [6]. The licenses concerning the API are the Apache License [4] and the GNU license [5].
· HermiT reasoner: it is a reasoner that works in Prot´eg´e, the most used software for ontology manipulation. There is and implementation for Java based on the OWL API. The version used is the latest one (1.4.5.519), and it can be found at the Maven repository [7] or downloaded from [8] with all dependencies. The reasoner is needed to perform queries on ontologies through Java. The documentation for a previous equivalent version (1.3.8.4) is available at [9]. The GNU license es applicable [5].
· myCBR: it is an open source tool for case-based reasoning applications. The Software Development Kit of myCBR project has been implemented in the application with the appropriate .jar file. The myCBR Workbench application may be very useful for visualizing .prj files. All the information concerning myCBR project (source code, installation guide, tutorials, javdoc, etc) is available at the website [10].
· Jena: it is a tool for ontology manipulation. In paritcular, it is used in this application for adding the capability to perform SPARQL queries on ontologies through Java with the SPARQL executable class in the project, that uses the Jena methods. The latest version is used (4.0.0), and it can be found at the Maven repository [13] (artifact jena-arq) or downloaded from [14] with all dependencies. A complete documentation of the Jena Core is available at [15]. The Apache license [4] is applicable.
· SWRL API with drools rule engine: the SWRL API may be used to implement SWRL rules in an ontology through a Java application. Moreover, if the drools reasoner is added, the application is able to execute SQWRL queries on the working ontology. In this case, the latest version of SWRL API (2.0.9) is used, which is available at the Maven repository [16]and at [17] for direct .jar download with all dependencies. A javadoc is available at [18]. Nevertheless, the compatibility of the SWRL API with OWL API is only guaranteed up to version 4.5.9, even if some later versions could be supported. Moreover, to query an ontology with the SWRL API and SQWRL language, an additional implementation of a reasoner is necessary: the implementation of drools engine is available for this purpose. Once again, it may be

3 DEPENDENCIES

18

found at the Maven repository [19] or for direct .jar download with all dependencies at [20].

REFERENCES

19

References

[1] JAR download (April 2021): https://jar-download.com/artifacts/net.sourceforge.owlapi/owlapidistribution

[2] MVN repository (April 2021): https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/net.sourceforge.owlapi/owlapidistribution/5.1.17

[3] OWL API javadoc (April 2021): https://javadoc.io/doc/net.sourceforge.owlapi/owlapidistribution/latest/index.html

[4] Apache License version 2.0: https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

[5] GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl3.0.txt

[6] MATENTZOGLU Nicolas., PALMISANO Ignazio. An introduction to OWL API. University of Manchester, 2016.
http://syllabus.cs.manchester.ac.uk/pgt/2020/COMP62342/introduction-owl-apimsc.pdf

[7] MVN repository (April 2021): https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/net.sourceforge.owlapi/org.semanticw

[8] JAR download (April 2021): https://jar-download.com/?searchbox=org.semanticweb.hermit

[9] HermiT 1.3.8.4 javadoc (April 2021): http://javadox.com/com.hermitreasoner/org.semanticweb.hermit/1.3.8.4/overview-summary.html

[10] myCBR website (April 2021): http://mycbr-project.org/index.

[11] SPARQL syntax reference (April 2021): https://www.w3.org/TR/sparql11-query/

[12] Javadoc reference (April 2021): resources/articles/java/javadoc-tool.html

https://www.oracle.com/technical-

[13] MVN repository (April 2021): https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.jena/jenaarq/4.0.0

[14] JAR download (April 2021): https://jar-download.com/artifacts/org.apache.jena/jenaarq

[15] Jena Core 4.0.0 (April 2021): https://jena.apache.org/documentation/javadoc/jena/

[16] MVN repository (April 2021): https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/edu.stanford.swrl/swrlapi/2.0.9

[17] JAR download (April 2021): https://jar-download.com/artifacts/edu.stanford.swrl/swrlapi

[18] SWRL API Javadoc (April 2021):

http://soft.vub.ac.be/svn-

pub/PlatformKit/platformkit-kb-owlapi3-doc/doc/owlapi3/javadoc/overview-

summary.html

REFERENCES

20

[19] MVN repository (April 2021): https://mvnrepository.com/artifact/org.apache.jena/jenaarq/4.0.0
[20] JAR download (April 2021): https://jar-download.com/artifacts/org.apache.jena/jenaarq
[21] O'CONNOR Martin Joseph, DAS Amar. SQWRL: A Query Language for OWL. Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, 2009.
[22] GitHub repository (April 2021): https://github.com/CommonCoreOntology/CommonCoreOntologies

